To set the stage
for the experiences in our program,
I’d like to talk to you
for a few minutes on the theme
“Invigorate Your Ministry—How?”
You dear brothers and sisters are having
a regular share in the preaching work,
and just think of the results.
Each year,
about two billion hours
are spent in the ministry.
Millions of Bible studies are conducted,
and those being baptized
number into the hundreds of thousands.
If you are a Kingdom publisher,
you have had a share
in those thrilling statistics.
But there’s a potential danger.
With so much to do in our life
—not just in the ministry
but also with secular work,
family responsibilities,
for some, even health issues—
we can get into a rut.
It’s not always easy to detect at first,
because in this age of technology
we always feel busy.
But what consumes our day?
Watch this one-minute video,
and try to detect what’s going on
in the life of one brother.
His life is in a rut.
Try to figure out why.
Would you say
that this brother’s life is in a rut?
Oh, he’s active all day
—he always has something to do.
But it’s as if his mind
has been kidnapped by his devices.
Have you ever had
the experience of reading an e-mail
while someone
is trying to tell you something?
It can be embarrassing
when you realize
that they’ve asked you a question,
and they’re waiting for an answer,
but you have no idea what they asked.
It’s embarrassing, right?
But what if the person
who is trying to speak to you is Jehovah?
Even though we aren’t doing anything wrong,
our daily routine
can occupy our attention so much
that we are not able to hear
the refreshing words of Jehovah.
That can happen to any one of us.
Even our spiritual activity
can get into a rut.
One Christian sister described it this way:
“I would go out in service,
“go to meetings, study, pray
“—but I did it all on automatic control,
never feeling anything.”
Have you ever felt that way?
Do you see
all the happy servants of Jehovah
whose experiences
appear on JW Broadcasting,
and you say to yourself:
‘Why can’t I find that joy?
Why is my ministry in a rut?’
Perhaps you feel
like a remote-control train
that goes around and around on a track,
working the same territory,
with the same partner,
saying the same thing at each door.
Of course, there’s nothing wrong
with being in a good routine.
But being in a rut can sap our energy
and take the joy out of our service.
We could even come to view
our ministry as boring.
Of course, we feel invigorated
when we get good results:
We meet an interested person
when going from door to door
—we’re invigorated!
An inactive person approaches the cart
and wants to get in touch
with the local congregation
—we’re even more invigorated!
We start a Bible study
—we’re on top of the world!
I’m sure you’ll agree,
all those outcomes
are good reasons for joy.
The problem is
that we’re not always in control
of getting those outcomes.
In real life,
we may spend an entire morning
in the door-to-door work
without meeting an interested person.
We may spend months
making return visits
without starting a study.
And once again,
our ministry can get into a rut.
Now, don’t misunderstand.
It’s not that we’re doing anything wrong,
but we’re not getting
the full joy out of doing what’s right.
Of course, Satan would love it
if our service to Jehovah
were to fall into a rut.
He would love it if we lost our joy.
If we lose our joy, we lose hope,
we lose strength,
and we might even begin
to feel like giving up.
The point is this, brothers and sisters:
If you feel that your ministry
has fallen into a rut,
don’t be discouraged and don’t give up.
There are ways
that we can invigorate our ministry
and serve Jehovah with renewed joy.
To illustrate that:
Maybe you’ve had
the frustrating experience
of locking yourself
out of your house or apartment.
Of course, with a key,
opening the door is simple.
A locked door
might seem like an obstacle,
but it isn’t if you have the key.
And the same is true
with invigorating our ministry.
If we’ve fallen into a rut
and if we’ve lost
that feeling of joy in our service,
there are a number of keys
that can help us unlock the door.
Let’s look at one.
Open your Bible
to 1 Corinthians 16:8, 9.
Now, in these verses,
the apostle Paul was presented
with a key of opportunity,
and he used it to open a door.
First Corinthians 16:8, 9 says:
“But I am remaining in Ephesus
“until the Festival of Pentecost,
“because a large door that leads to activity
has been opened to me.”
Here, the apostle Paul found a key,
and it didn’t require
moving to another location.
In this case,
the key was to stay where he was
and to take full advantage
of an opportunity right before him.
Sometimes, the key
to getting out of a rut in our ministry
is to take advantage of opportunities
we have right where we are.
For example,
have you considered auxiliary pioneering
or regular pioneering?
What about learning a foreign language
with the goal of helping
a nearby group or congregation?
Opening one door often leads
to other doors of opportunity.
For example,
a brother named Jacob wrote this:
“When I was seven,
many of my classmates were Vietnamese.
“I wanted to tell them about Jehovah,
“so after a while
I made plans to learn their language.
“For the most part,
“I learned by comparing
the English and Vietnamese editions
“of The Watchtower.
“I also made friends in a nearby
Vietnamese-language congregation.
“When I was 18, I started pioneering.
“Later, I attended
the Bible School for Single Brothers.
“This helped me
with my present pioneer assignment,
“where I am the only elder
in a Vietnamese-language group.
“Many Vietnamese people are amazed
that I have learned their language.
“They invite me in,
and often I can study the Bible with them.
Some have progressed to baptism.”
The point is,
our ministry is what we make it.
If we allow ourselves to remain in a rut,
it will be boring.
If we use our keys
and if we take advantage
of opportunities that present themselves,
we will invigorate our ministry
and give it new meaning.
This doesn’t always involve
putting in more time in the ministry.
It could mean that we
simply ‘make the best use of our time’
as Ephesians 5:16 says.
In fact, there’s a saying:
“Don’t work harder; work smarter.”
The key to working smarter
could be as simple
as switching things up a bit.
For example:
Could we work with different publishers
instead of the same one all the time?
Could we try a different approach
to our presentation,
perhaps making better use
of the Bible or our videos?
Could we engage
in other aspects of the ministry,
such as cart witnessing
or phone witnessing?
Could we use our time
more effectively to reach people
when they’re most likely to be home?
Here’s something else
we could do to unlock a door
and invigorate our ministry.
Open your Bible to Acts 16:9, 10.
Now, here the apostle Paul found
a unique way to unlock
a door to greater joy.
Acts 16:9, 10 says:
“And during the night
a vision appeared to Paul
“—a Macedonian man
was standing there urging him and saying:
“‘Step over into Macedonia and help us.’
“As soon as he had seen the vision,
“we tried to go into Macedonia,
“drawing the conclusion
that God had summoned us
to declare the good news to them.”
Notice, Paul didn’t think of all the reasons
he couldn’t step into Macedonia.
No, he took action
as soon as he was presented
with the opportunity.
Paul unlocked the door
to invigorate his ministry.
Sometimes we think
that only those who are young
can reach out to pioneer
or to serve where the need is greater.
But that’s not always the case.
You parents may be able to unlock
a door of opportunity for yourselves,
and think of the example
you set for your children when you do so.
That’s what a mother named Tara discovered:
“I started pioneering
when my youngest daughter
was in elementary school,” she says.
“It was important to me
“that my children see me serving Jehovah
to the best of my ability
as I encouraged them to reach out.”
Tara’s husband, Anthony,
saw the effect
that his wife’s pioneering had
and, in time,
he too joined the ranks.
This is what he said:
“When Tara became a pioneer,
“it made an immediate impact
“on daughters number one and number two,
“and they became pioneers.
“When I became a pioneer,
“daughters number three
and number four followed.
“I wish I had pursued
full-time service sooner,
as it made a huge impact
on the spirituality of the family.”
I can relate to this experience
because of the good example of my parents.
My mother was baptized in Canada
in 1940 when she was 16.
Jehovah’s Witnesses
had just been banned in Canada.
Her father had already died,
and her mother was opposed at that time.
The brothers had very little money,
but they encouraged
my mother to pursue spiritual goals.
With that encouragement,
she started pioneering in 1942
while the ban was still on in Canada.
In 1947, she was invited
to become a special pioneer
in the province of Quebec.
At that time,
special pioneers were required
to spend 200 hours
each month in the ministry.
With basically no money
and no family support,
she accepted that assignment.
This picture was taken
when she and her pioneer partner
were boarding the train to Quebec.
Whenever I see this picture,
it reminds me
of the intrepid spirit that my mother had
—not being afraid
to take on a challenging assignment,
but putting complete trust in Jehovah.
That spirit encourages me even to this day.
My father has that same spirit.
In the summer of 1976,
when I was 11 years old,
a new arrangement was announced
at our district convention
—auxiliary pioneering.
You could be an auxiliary pioneer
if you could devote 60 hours
in one month to the ministry.
The month of October 1976
had five weekends.
My father encouraged
our whole congregation
to try auxiliary pioneering that month.
So many brothers and sisters, including me,
decided to get a taste of pioneering.
It was a wonderful experience
that I will never forget.
Parents, your good example
will help your children
to have a living ministry
of their own that they will love.
Brothers and sisters,
if you find yourself in a rut,
there is no reason to stay there.
We’ve discussed several ways
to reinvigorate our ministry,
and with Jehovah’s help
we will be successful.